Updated Bob's database deployment post #3 w/ SEO and content tweaks (#250)
OctopusDeploy/blog: blog/2020-02/database-deployment-automation-using-redgate-sql-change-automation/index.md

![Database deployment automation using state-based Redgate SQL Change Automation](blogimage-redgate-database.png)

My previous blog posts discussed why [you should consider automated database deployments](blog/2020-02/why-consider-database-deployment-automation/index.md) and [tips for getting started](blog/2020-02/database-deployment-automation-approaches/index.md).

> This article walks through setting up an database deployment automation pipeline using the [state-based approach](https://www.red-gate.com/products/sql-development/sql-change-automation/approaches) for [Redgate’s SQL Change Automation](https://www.red-gate.com/products/sql-development/sql-change-automation/).  I picked this tool because it is easy to set up, integrates with SSMS, and I already had a demo setup.  I’m also [biased](https://www.red-gate.com/hub/events/friends-of-rg/friend/BobWalker) towards Redgate’s tooling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article walks through setting up a database deployment automation pipeline using the [state-based approach](https://www.red-gate.com/products/sql-development/sql-change-automation/approaches) for [Redgate’s SQL Change Automation](https://www.red-gate.com/products/sql-development/sql-change-automation/).  I picked this tool because it is easy to set up, integrates with SSMS, and I already had a demo setup.  I’m also [biased](https://www.red-gate.com/hub/events/friends-of-rg/friend/BobWalker) towards Redgate’s tooling.
```

If you run into issues installing any of these tools, please go to the vendor’s website for help.  If you need any help installing Octopus Deploy, please start with our [docs](https://octopus.com/docs/installation) or contact [support](mailto:support@octopus.com).

### Developer workstation

This is the machine you will use to make the schema changes and check them into source control.  When you install Redgate’s SQL Tool-belt, you will be prompt to install quite a bit of software.  You only need to install the following:
- SQL Source Control.
- SQL Prompt (it isn’t required, but it makes things much easier).
- SSMS Integration Pack.

### Build server/Continuous Integration tool

> Both Octopus Deploy and Redgate have plug-ins for the major continous integration tools/build servers:

Reviewer: Minor but keep the order the same as the title :)
Also, after including continuous integration tools in the title, I don't think you need it here as well.
```suggestion
Both Octopus Deploy and Redgate have plug-ins for the major build servers/continuous integration tools:
```

    - [Redgate download](https://marketplace.atlassian.com/apps/1213347/redgate-dlm-automation-for-bamboo?hosting=server&tab=overview).

### Deployment target or database worker
Installing an Octopus Tentacle on SQL Server is a big no-no.  Our [documentation](https://octopus.com/docs/deployment-examples/sql-server-databases#SQLServerdatabases-Tentacles) goes into further details why.  

The preferred solution is to configure a jump box that sits between Octopus Deploy and SQL Server. Octopus supports two options for this:
* Deployment target
* Database worker

In this post, I'll add a deployment target but I wanted to mention workers as another good option. They're particularly useful for teams doing a lot of database deployments.

:::hint
Workers enable you to move deployment work onto other machines running in pools and database deployments are a common usecase for this. You can create a pool of dedicated workers that can be utilized for database deployments by multiple projects and teams. 

See [our documentation](https://octopus.com/docs/infrastructure/workers) for more information.
:::

> For security purposes, I recommend running the Tentacle/Worker as a specific user account.  This way you can make use of integrated security.  Here is [some documentation](https://octopus.com/docs/infrastructure/windows-targets/running-tentacle-under-a-specific-user-account) on how to configure that.  Keep in mind that only works if you are using Active Directory.  If you are not using that, you can still use this process; you just need to use SQL Users instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For security purposes, I recommend running the Tentacle/Worker as a specific user account.  This way you can make use of integrated security. You can configure [Active Directory](https://octopus.com/docs/infrastructure/windows-targets/running-tentacle-under-a-specific-user-account) or use SQL Users instead.
```
